# Concepts
#### 1. JWT not safe, use for specific use cases only
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/JWT.md

#### 2. How to approach_scaling
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/How_to_approach_scaling.md

#### 3. API Design - Best practises (Stripe)
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/API_Design.md

#### 4. Queues_usecases
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/queues_use_cases.md

#### 5. Streaming arch.
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/streaming_architecture.md

#### 6. REDIS vs Kafka
https://opencredo.com/blogs/kafka-vs-rabbitmq-the-consumer-driven-choice/

# OOAD
#### 1. design-patterns
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/awesome-design-patterns
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/java-design-patterns
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/OOAD-DesignPatterns

#### 2. Distributed_systems_notes (TODO)
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/distributed_systems_notes

#### 3. ParkingLot(TODO)
1. Problem Description: https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/Parking%20Lot.pdf
2. MyRejectectedSolutionAtGoJek: https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/ParkingLotImpl     

#### 4. Twitter - Data modelling
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/twitter_data_modelling_redis

#### 5. DownloadManager
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/DownloadManager

#### 6. OOAD Design challenges
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/grokking-the-object-oriented-design-interview

# E2E System Design

#### 1. system-design-questions
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/system-design-questions

#### 2. learn-system-design
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/learn-system-design

#### 3. learning-path-system-design
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/learning-path-system-design

#### 4. LLD-design-primer
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/low-level-design-primer

#### 5. mobile-system-design
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/mobile-system-design

#### 6. system-design-and-architecture
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/system-design-and-architecture

#### 7. Template - System Design
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/system_design_strategy.md

#### 8. systems_design_fundamentals_notes
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/algoexpert_systems_design_fundamentals_notes

#### 9. Uber
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/uber.md

#### 10. URL Shortener
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/URL%20Shortener.pdf

#### 11. Rate Limiter
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/rate_limiter.md
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/RateLimiter

#### 12. Ticket booking
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/ticket_booking.md

#### 13. Bruteforce_Password_Retriever
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/Bruteforce_Password_Retriever.md

#### 14. customer_segmentation_design
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/customer_segmentation_design

#### 15. splitwise
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/splitwise.md

#### 16. scalable payment settlement(scheduled for each upcoming day) engine
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/payment_settlement_engine.md

#### 17. Design JIRA like system (TODO)

#### 18. Design ChatRoom
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/main/design_chat_room.md

#### 19. Google Drive
https://github.com/khatwaniNikhil/SystemDesign/blob/f2a9e0ee54b839c42904c3bba4ea5f2a5a3849ed/google-drive-or-dropbox.md

